README.md, before:

# Description

This is an implementation of Firebase Cloud Messaging server. It allows to send messages to android/ios devices using differerent strategies. It uses a Firestore database to persit data.

# Project Structure

This project is composed of single app, `api`. The `api` app serves API endpoints of the project.
<br> <br>

# Installation

install the dependencies

```jsx
pip install

```

Run the server in develeopment mode

```jsx
npm run dev
```

<br>

# Environment Variables

The .env file should be localted inside the /src/config forlder, there is an .env.example file for reference.

It is necesary to provide a GCP service account json file key with valid permissions to access both services, Firestore Databases and Cloud Messaging. <br>

```jsx
FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY = "example-file-name.json";
FIRESTORE_URL = "https://example-firebase-url.com";
PORT = 3000;
TESTING_DEVICE_TOKEN = "example-device-token-123123123";
```

<br> <br>

# API Endpoints

The `api` app has a total of 9 endpoints.

### Endpoints for `api` app

```jsx
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/account/single *
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/account/group *

TODO
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/topics

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/subscriptions *

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/tokens *

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/messages/native/single *
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/messages/native/group *
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/messages/native/batch *
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/messages/native/topic *
```

<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/account/single
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a message to all the devices linked a single account | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/account/group
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a messages all the devices linked to a group of accounts | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/native/single
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a message to a single device token. | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/native/group
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a message to a group of tokens. | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/native/topic
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a message to a topic subscribers | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/native/batch
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends message batch | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/subscription
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Subscribres tokens to a topic | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Unsubscribes tokens from a topic | Yes | 204 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/token
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Registers a device token to a account | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Unregisters a device token from a account | Yes | 204 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/topics
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GET | Get all the topics | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Delete a topic | Yes | 204 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/topics
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GET | Get all the topics | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Delete a topic | Yes | 204 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/tokens
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Saves device token | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Deletes device token | Yes | 204 |
<br>

# Testing

There are a total of 9 tests to ensure that each API endpoint and each of its allowed HTTP methods work properly.
<br>

Run the tests

```jsx
npm run test
```

<br>

It should output something similar to this

```cmd
 PASS  src/controllers/__tests__/message.test.js
 PASS  src/controllers/__tests__/subscription.test.js
 PASS  src/controllers/__tests__/token.test.js

Test Suites: 3 passed, 3 total
Tests:       9 passed, 9 total
Snapshots:   0 total
Time:        7.1 s
Ran all test suites.
```

<br>

<aside>💡 These tests are targeting the controllers. For the moment, there are no integration tests at the API endpoint level.
<br>
<br>

💡 Integration tests at endpoint level are pending.

</aside>

## When subscribing to topic

1.  Validar los parametros del request
2.  Validar la existencia del documento 'deviceTokens' con el email solicitado
3.  Subscribir al topic
4.  Agregar el topic al documento 'tokenDetails'
5.  Crear o Actualizar el documento 'topicDetails' para el conteo de subscriptores y detalles

## Documentos de la base de datos

accounts: [
email: {
tokens: []
}
]

tokens: [
token: {
createdAt: timeStamp,
deviceType: android/ios
account: test@email.com
topics: [topic1, topic2]
}
]

topics: [
topic: {
noSubscriptors: 10
createdAt: timeStamp,
updatedAt: timeStamp,
status: true/false
}
]

# TODOS

    - Change email logic
    - When a token is added to an existing account, subscribe to topics...
    - Delete topic if zero subscribers...

# Notes

- If we want to keep the API 'agnostic' we should perstist info about which app is sending the request.
- What's going to append if the user changes his email in only one app

# TODO's

Commit message:

added topic statistics and fixed some unit test

README.md, after:

# Description

This is an implementation of Firebase Cloud Messaging server. It allows to send messages to android/ios devices using differerent strategies. It uses a Firestore database to persit data.

# Project Structure

This project is composed of single app, `api`. The `api` app serves API endpoints of the project.
<br> <br>

# Installation

install the dependencies

```jsx
pip install

```

Run the server in develeopment mode

```jsx
npm run dev
```

<br>

# Environment Variables

The .env file should be localted inside the /src/config forlder, there is an .env.example file for reference.

It is necesary to provide a GCP service account json file key with valid permissions to access both services, Firestore Databases and Cloud Messaging. <br>

```jsx
FIREBASE_SERVICE_ACCOUNT_KEY = "example-file-name.json";
FIRESTORE_URL = "https://example-firebase-url.com";
PORT = 3000;
TESTING_DEVICE_TOKEN = "example-device-token-123123123";
```

<br> <br>

# API Endpoints

The `api` app has a total of 9 endpoints.

### Endpoints for `api` app

```jsx
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/account/single *
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/account/group *

TODO
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/topics

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/subscriptions *

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/tokens *

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/messages/native/single *
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/messages/native/group *
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/messages/native/batch *
http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/messages/native/topic *
```

<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/account/single
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a message to all the devices linked a single account | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/account/group
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a messages all the devices linked to a group of accounts | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/native/single
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a message to a single device token. | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/native/group
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a message to a group of tokens. | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/native/topic
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends a message to a topic subscribers | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/message/native/batch
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Sends message batch | Yes | 201 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/subscription
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Subscribres tokens to a topic | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Unsubscribes tokens from a topic | Yes | 204 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/token
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Registers a device token to a account | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Unregisters a device token from a account | Yes | 204 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/topics
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GET | Get all the topics | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Delete a topic | Yes | 204 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/topics
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| GET | Get all the topics | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Delete a topic | Yes | 204 |
<br>

http:127.0.0.1:8000/sbc-fcm-api/v1/tokens
| Method | Action | TOKEN AUTH | STATUS CODE |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| POST | Saves device token | Yes | 201 |
| DELETE | Deletes device token | Yes | 204 |
<br>

# Testing

There are a total of 9 tests to ensure that each API endpoint and each of its allowed HTTP methods work properly.
<br>

Run the tests

```jsx
npm run test
```

<br>

It should output something similar to this

```cmd
 PASS  src/controllers/__tests__/message.test.js
 PASS  src/controllers/__tests__/subscription.test.js
 PASS  src/controllers/__tests__/token.test.js

Test Suites: 3 passed, 3 total
Tests:       9 passed, 9 total
Snapshots:   0 total
Time:        7.1 s
Ran all test suites.
```

<br>

<aside>💡 These tests are targeting the controllers. For the moment, there are no integration tests at the API endpoint level.
<br>
<br>

💡 Integration tests at endpoint level are pending.

</aside>

## When subscribing to topic

1.  Validar los parametros del request
2.  Validar la existencia del documento 'deviceTokens' con el email solicitado
3.  Subscribir al topic
4.  Agregar el topic al documento 'tokenDetails'
5.  Crear o Actualizar el documento 'topicDetails' para el conteo de subscriptores y detalles

## Documentos de la base de datos

accounts: [
email: {
tokens: []
}
]

tokens: [
token: {
createdAt: timeStamp,
deviceType: android/ios
account: test@email.com
topics: [topic1, topic2]
}
]

topics: [
topic: {
noSubscriptors: 10
createdAt: timeStamp,
updatedAt: timeStamp,
status: true/false
}
]

# TODOS
    - Change email logic
    - When a token is added to an existing account, subscribe to topics...
    - Delete topic if zero subscribers...
    - Modify topic endpoint to generate statistics
    - Modify counts to use Fieldvalue.Increment

# Notes

- If we want to keep the API 'agnostic' we should perstist info about which app is sending the request.
- What's going to append if the user changes his email in only one app

# TODO's
